# SleepA
### Description
SleepA is an analysis tool which is used to determine which stage of sleep the person is in based on the EEG and EOG data. The pattern of sleep stages indicate the sleep quality. By finding the correlation between neuron activity and sleep quality, one's sleep can potentially be improved through neuron stimulation.
Please see "AIMD PRES.pptx" for more details.

### Datasets
The datasets used are from sleep edf database on physionet: https://www.physionet.org/physiobank/database/sleep-edfx/
The complete datasets in edf format can be found either on the physionet website or here: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1L7KPeu0mzkD_RkukdNMZIeaK9R1WOYwK
The selected 10 datasets in csv format can be found in jupyter_ml/Hypo and jupyter_ml/psg

### Data plot & cleanup
Matlab is used to load, plot, downsize and convert the datasets.
The datasets are available in edf format. edfread loads the datasets to Matlab. It can be downloaded from: https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/31900-edfread

In the datasets, there are two types of data, signal data (psg) and hypnogram data (hypo).
Signal data is computed from the EEG and EOG sensor output. EEG measures the brain neuron activity. EOG measures the eye movement.
Hypnogram data is manually computed by sleep technicians. The sleep technicians determines which stage of sleep the person is in by looking at the signal data.

Graphs are generated by ploting the signal data and hypnogram data, see "sleep_data.jpg". The sleep pattern can be observed in the signal graph which can be aligned with the hypnogram graph. Selected signal data (EEGFpzCz, EEGPzOz and EOGhorizontal) are downsized using signal_avg function before being converted to csv format from edf format.

### Machine learning
libraries used:
- pandas: data manipulation and analysis
- scikit-learn: machine learning library
- numpy: maths

Datasets are first combined then split into training and testing sets. Random Forest Regressor module is used for training the data.
The result is 87% accuracy.

### Team members
Erica Austriaco
Krystal Yang
Rosalyn Wong
Stephanie On
